dissdata/data/LabourMarket/README.md, before:

# lmsm_regional_3digitnoc.csv

## Title
Labour Market Outlook 2010-2020

## Description
Reports on future supply, demand and supply-demand balance for occupations across BC's development regions. The report provides projections to identify occupations in BC at various skill levels that may face shortages of workers. 

## Source
Ministry of Jobs, Tourism and Skills Training

## Caveats etc
Contact JTST for more information.

## Preparation notes
- downloaded file `Labour-Market-Outlook-Regional-Data-by-3-digit-NOC-2010-2020.csv` from DataBC catalog
- downloaded file `Labour-Market-Outlook_DataDictionary.txt` from DataBC catalog
- manually added and populated `jtst_geography_id` column based on region names (note that this is preliminary, see the notes for unemployment above on how jtst_geography_id is assigned)
- minor renaming of other columns in the data file
- created `lmsm_regional_3digitnoc_METADATA.csv` documenting data structure/values based on the information in file `Labour-Market-Outlook_DataDictionary.txt`
- note that a geographic ID of 6 is given for British Columbia, but I'm not sure that there is a corresponding geographic record in the census data published to BCGW

# regional_noc_wages.csv

## Title
Wages for 4 digit NOC classificaitons by Census Economic Region

## Description
*require JTST input*

## Source
JTST

## Caveats etc
*require JTST input*

### Preparation notes
- data file `4 digit wages by region.xlsx` provided by JTST (nick.bystedt@gov.bc.ca)
- field descriptions provided by JTST
- modified field names to remove special characters
- converted to utf-8

# unemployment.csv

## Title
Unemployment by Economic Region

## Description
*require JTST input*

## Source
JTST, Statistics Canada

## Caveats etc
*require JTST input*

### Preparation notes
- received file `WorkBC Navigator September 2014.xlsx` from Nick Bystedt (JTST)
- extracted unemployment data for economic regions and CMAs to new .csv file
- added and populated jtst_geography_id column, giving Nechako/North Coast an id of 5965 
- created the lookup/cross-ref table `JTST_CENSUS_geographies_xref.csv` for mapping JTST regions to CENSUS regions. Assigning `5965` to both North Coast and Nechacko regions seems reasonable at first glance. there is not a conflict with any other geography (based on a check here: http://www12.statcan.gc.ca/census-recensement/2011/dp-pd/prof/index.cfm?Lang=E). Another possibility is to use JTST internal IDs for all regions (if they exist)
- added unemployment_y1 and unemployment_y2 columns, populated with data from forecasts for 2015, 2016
- note that unemployment forecasts are only available at the economic region level
- note that a geographic ID of 6 is given for British Columbia, but I'm not sure that there is a corresponding geographic record in the census data published to BCGW
- as per DataBC comments
  + renamed jtst_geography_id column to geography_id
  + removed 5965 geography id, added 5970 and 5960 and a new record, duplicating the values
  + replace NA value with null
  + added geography_level column

Commit message:

fixed column name in wages table

dissdata/data/LabourMarket/README.md, after:

# lmsm_regional_3digitnoc.csv

## Title
Labour Market Outlook 2010-2020

## Description
Reports on future supply, demand and supply-demand balance for occupations across BC's development regions. The report provides projections to identify occupations in BC at various skill levels that may face shortages of workers. 

## Source
Ministry of Jobs, Tourism and Skills Training

## Caveats etc
Contact JTST for more information.

## Preparation notes
- downloaded file `Labour-Market-Outlook-Regional-Data-by-3-digit-NOC-2010-2020.csv` from DataBC catalog
- downloaded file `Labour-Market-Outlook_DataDictionary.txt` from DataBC catalog
- manually added and populated `jtst_geography_id` column based on region names (note that this is preliminary, see the notes for unemployment above on how jtst_geography_id is assigned)
- minor renaming of other columns in the data file
- created `lmsm_regional_3digitnoc_METADATA.csv` documenting data structure/values based on the information in file `Labour-Market-Outlook_DataDictionary.txt`
- note that a geographic ID of 6 is given for British Columbia, but I'm not sure that there is a corresponding geographic record in the census data published to BCGW

# regional_noc_wages.csv

## Title
Wages for 4 digit NOC classificaitons by Census Economic Region

## Description
*require JTST input*

## Source
JTST

## Caveats etc
*require JTST input*

### Preparation notes
- data file `4 digit wages by region.xlsx` provided by JTST (nick.bystedt@gov.bc.ca)
- field descriptions provided by JTST
- modified field names to remove special characters
- converted to utf-8

### Dec 11 prep notes
- received new file
- in Refine, manually updated annual/hourly indicators, changing 'yes' to ANNUAL, 'no' to HOURLY
- in Refine, manually converted salary values to number where provided as string
- tidied column names and renamed file with this code:
```
import petl

t = petl.fromcsv('wages_salaries.csv')
t_header = petl.header(t)
header_remap = {k: k.lower().replace(' ','_').replace('esdc_', '') for k in t_header}
t2 = petl.rename(t, header_remap)
petl.header(t2)
petl.tocsv(t2, 'econ_labour_wages_tbl.csv')
```


# unemployment.csv

## Title
Unemployment by Economic Region

## Description
*require JTST input*

## Source
JTST, Statistics Canada

## Caveats etc
*require JTST input*

### Preparation notes
- received file `WorkBC Navigator September 2014.xlsx` from Nick Bystedt (JTST)
- extracted unemployment data for economic regions and CMAs to new .csv file
- added and populated jtst_geography_id column, giving Nechako/North Coast an id of 5965 
- created the lookup/cross-ref table `JTST_CENSUS_geographies_xref.csv` for mapping JTST regions to CENSUS regions. Assigning `5965` to both North Coast and Nechacko regions seems reasonable at first glance. there is not a conflict with any other geography (based on a check here: http://www12.statcan.gc.ca/census-recensement/2011/dp-pd/prof/index.cfm?Lang=E). Another possibility is to use JTST internal IDs for all regions (if they exist)
- added unemployment_y1 and unemployment_y2 columns, populated with data from forecasts for 2015, 2016
- note that unemployment forecasts are only available at the economic region level
- note that a geographic ID of 6 is given for British Columbia, but I'm not sure that there is a corresponding geographic record in the census data published to BCGW
- as per DataBC comments
  + renamed jtst_geography_id column to geography_id
  + removed 5965 geography id, added 5970 and 5960 and a new record, duplicating the values
  + replace NA value with null
  + added geography_level column
